RPG Maker RGSS3
===============

Implementation of the RGSS3 engine that powers RPG Maker VX games.
This gem can be used in different ways.
One way, the gem can be included in utilities outside of RPG Maker.
For example, retrieving, updating, and storing data in RPG Maker project files.
The gem can also be used to run an RPG Maker game from Ruby.
Credit goes to Enterbrain for the original architecture (structure) of the RGSS engine and its classes and modules.

Project Structure
-----------------

This project can be built using two systems - Rake and CMake.
The Rake method is intended more from Ruby developers.
The CMake method is used to produce files that can be substituted in for Enterbrain's RPG Maker binaries.

The following is a description of the directory structure used for this project.

- `cmake/` - Custom CMake modules.
- `ext/` - Ruby native extension for RGSS. The actual code for RGSS is not here. Describes how to build RGSS with CMake.
- `include/` - Header files for C++ implementation of the RGSS engine.
  - `binding/` - Header files specific to the binding. These are needed to include the binding in C/C++ code.
  - `rgss/` - Header files for the implementation of RGSS.
- `lib/` - Ruby scripts. This includes everything in the RPG module and method stubs for the RGSS modules and classes.
  - `rpg/` - RPG module. Contains the classes provided by RPG Maker VX. RGSS doesn't depend on these.
- `ruby/` - CMake configuration for building our own Ruby.
- `spec/` - Test scripts. RSpec is used to test the functionality.
  - `unit/` - Unit tests for the RGSS implementation.
- `src/` - C/C++ code. Native extension code for the gem and Game executable.
  - `rgss/` - C++ implementation of the RGSS engine.
  - `binding/` - C binding. Ties the ruby methods to the C++ implementation.
  - `game/` - Bootstrap program for running RPG Maker VX games.
  - `rb2c/` - Utility for converting a Ruby script into a C file.

Additional directories generated by building:

- `build/` - Directory used to compile the native extension from Rake.
- `doc/` - Documentation built using YARD.
- `pkg/` - Contains the built gem file.
- `tmp/` - Can be generated when compiling the native extension.

Ruby Usage
----------

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rpg-maker-rgss3'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install rpg-maker-rgss3

Pre-requisites
--------------

Ruby 1.9.3 or higher.
Ruby must be installed on the system even though source for one is downloaded.
The Ruby compilation process for 1.8+ requires it.

### Linux

* x11
* xrandr
* opengl
* udev
* glew
* jpeg
* freetype
* openal
* sndfile
* autoconf

On Ubuntu, these can be installed with:

`sudo apt-get install libx11-dev libxrandr-dev libgl-dev libudev-dev libglew-dev libjpeg-dev libfreetype6-dev  libopenal-dev libsndfile-dev autoconf`

